---
layout: default
title: DBI Project 1 &mdash; Brand Concept
footer: ''
highlight: 'assignments'
term: 'fa23'
course: 'dbi'
---

# Project One --- Brand Concept
## Description
Choose an industry based on one of your pairs from HW1. _(or another industry if you prefer)_.

You will develop a __concept__ for a new brand; a product or service that fits into that industry. Example --- perhaps you chose the _food and drink_ industry and have an idea for a new bottled water brand.

## Requirements
### Format
1. You will produce a presentation slide deck in Google Docs or PowerPoint. You will export this as a `pdf` file for me.
2. You will present your new brand concept in class.

### Length
There is no length requirement in terms of number of slides. However, you should keep your class presentation to a maximum of `6 minutes`

### Approach
The idea is that you have a basic idea for a product/service and can communicate it to others. You must take the idea in your head and turn it into a vision that others can see.

* Remember that __"people don't buy what you do. They buy why you do it."__ Why does your brand do what it does? What do you stand for?
* What is your mission statement? You should be able to describe your mission in a couple of sentences or less.
* What is your brand's name?
* What is your brand's tagline? (Remember the __Big Idea__ behind every major brand)
* Who is your target audience? What does your average customer look like? Your presentation __must include a persona.__
* What differentiates your product from existing products in the industry?
* Put together image examples that demonstrate the visual identity of your brand. Please cover:
  * Colors
  * Fonts
  * Shape language (e.g. sharp vs. round logo, patterns/textures)
  * Anything else--- themes, imagery, iconography etc.


## Submission
Please name your file `p1-lastname-firstname.pdf`. Please make sure it's all `lowercase`.


You will submit your `pdf` on Moodle. You will present in class the week following submission.

On `presentation day`: please make sure we have a way to view your file on the class computer. You might submit a shareable Google Slides link for instance.

### Grading
This is worth `10 pts.`

 * `1 pt.` - Your file is named correctly
 * `1 pt.` - Your brand's name and tagline are fitting
 * `2 pts.` - Your brand has a clearly articulated 'why'
 * `2 pts.` - Your persona is compelling and realistic
 * `2 pts.` - Your visual identity samples are __cohesive__ and sensible for the brand
 * `2 pts.` - Presentation quality: You communicate your ideas well

### Due Date
This assignment is due __Wednesday Sept. 27th @ 11:59pm__