---
layout: default
title: DBI Project 2 &mdash; Visual Identity System
footer: ''
highlight: 'assignments'
term: 'fa23'
course: 'dbi'
---

# Project Two --- Visual Identity System
## Overview
You will develop a comprehensive visual identity system for a fictional brand.

### Format
1. You will produce a presentation slide deck in Google Docs or PowerPoint. You will export this as a `pdf` file.
2. You will present your visual identity system in class.

## Brand Selection
1. You can't use the brand you created for the first project.
2. You are creating a new, fictional brand based off of a theme that I'm giving you.

__Selection Process__: First, choose one of the following themes. You will base your new, fictional brand concept around one of these themes. The themes are completely open to interpretation--- it's more important what the theme means to you than what it means to me or anybody else.

__THEMES__: _(choose one)_
1. Interconnectedness
2. Legacy
3. Future-Proof
4. Harmony
5. Resilience
6. Transformation


Please specify your chosen theme in the slide deck.

## Slide Outline
I have provided a recommend outline to simplify the project for you. You are not bound to this outline; e.g. you can use additional slides; change order; etc.:

* Slide 1: Title slide
* Slide 2: Theme/Brand Selection
* Slides 3 and 4: Visual Inspiration
* Slide 5: Logo Design
* Slide 6: Color Palette
* Slide 7: Typography
* Slides 8+: Sources Cited

### Slide 1: Title Slide
Include:
* Your name
* Brand name
* Chosen theme (just put the word somewhere)

### Slide 2: Theme/Brand Selection
In the first project you created a very detailed brand concept. Because this project is based on visual identity, you will create a simple brand concept based off of your chosen theme.

You will create __one slide__ to convey the concept of your brand. No need to put a lot of detail. You don't need a persona or anything like that; just a few sentences to explain the essence of the brand and what it stands for.

Please specify your chosen theme on this slide (just put the word somewhere).

### Slides 3 and 4: Visual Inspiration
Before you create your own visual identity, you should gather inspiration from other brands, possible competitors, or anything that inspires a vision.

You will assemble two visual inspiration slides. They must each have at least six images. You will cite the images at the end of the presentation.

In your image selection please make sure:
1. Images have some level of variety; not just a bunch of the same imagery
2. Images should give inspiration for the visual identity of __the brand; not the product.__
3. You get images of existing brand assets--- websites, logos, business cards, ads

Ideas for gathering inspiration:
1. [This tutorial on stylescapes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lGmPCutgI2o) is extremely helpful.
2. Visit the [inspiration section](../inspiration.html) of this website.
3. Two common tools for gathering inspos are Behance and Pinterest--- Use the term __style guide__ or __visual identity__ in your searches, and you'll find a lot of great ideas.

You might consider re-visiting the following lectures:
1. [Lecture on Brand Elements](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1z_J9QDFmTzsZZoU0HZ_OMnw1umJ8tXaqee02APzVeiU/edit?usp=sharing)
2. [Lecture on Logo Design](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1YgwmjfZXBoqa_C_UawNWi4bZi_XKuOsAVEPwegtbp_s/edit?usp=sharing)

### Slide 5: Logo Design
Your logo should be:

1. Visually engaging
2. Memorable
3. Versatile
4. Representative of the brand's essence

My recommendation is to __keep it simple.__ Notice how many successful logos are made with rudimentary shapes.

I recommend making your logo in Illustrator or Canva and then exporting it.



### Slide 6: Color Palette
No strict requirements; you can have as few as 1-2 colors if it fits the brand.

Again, look at inspiration samples to get a sense of color uses.

Your slide should showcase some potential uses of color.

### Slide 7: Typography
Must have:
1. At least one font for headings (titles/section headings)
2. At least one font for body copy (main text on a website/app/ad)

These can be the same font-family in different sizes/font faces if you want.

Please identify the fonts used.

You might consider using [lorem ipsum](https://www.lipsum.com/) for sample text.

### Slides 8+: Sources Cited
* Please cite all sources. Don't just say "pictures from Google Images"; please specify the source.
* Please cite any use of AI tools and how you used them.
* No need to use a particular format/bibliography; just put bullet points. 
* If you need more than one slide that's fine.

## Submission
Please name your file `p2-lastname-firstname.pdf`.
* Please make sure it's all `lowercase`.
* No underscores or spaces in the filename.

You will submit your `pdf` on Moodle. You will present in class following submission.

### Grading
This is worth `15 pts.`

### Due Date
This assignment is due __Monday Nov 6th @ 11:59pm__