---
layout: default
title: DBI Project 3 &mdash; Brand Launch
footer: ''
highlight: 'assignments'
term: 'fa23'
course: 'dbi'
---

# Project Three --- Brand Launch
## Overview
You will combine all of your learnings to launch a brand.

Your brand should be:
* Driven by a strong concept
* Unique and differentiated

## Requirements
### Brand Selection
All work must be original for this class.

You may not use work in which most of the content/branding was created prior to the start of this semester.

However, if you want to build on a brand you created for one of the first two projects, that is fine.

Here are some examples of what is not allowed:
1. Creating a website for your mom's flower shop and submitting it as your own
2. Submitting your school sports team's instagram profile
3. Submitting the link for your YouTube channel that you created in 2019
4. Submitting anything that was already created before this semester

If you aren't sure if your selection is acceptable, please ask me.

### Format
You have two deliverables:
1. A website
2. A social media profile

#### Website Requirements

Your website:
 * You can use anything to build the website. Many people choose Wix or Squarespace.
 * No need to have a lot of pages; a one-page site is fine.
 * Must be functional; no broken/buggy stuff.
 * Should be inspired by other websites in the same space. E.g. if you're doing a beverage company then study a bunch of other beverage brand's sites.
 * All text, imagery, and content must be consistent with brand identity; stick to the visual identity and brand messaging
 * __Optional__: Get a branded domain name _(Google Domains is usually cheap)_

#### Social Media Profile Requirements

Choose one of the following:

1. Instagram _(Recommended; it's easiest)_
2. TikTok
3. YouTube
4. You may use another platform with my permission

If you chose Instagram:
 * You must have at least three posts

If you chose TikTok:
 * You must have at least three videos

If you chose YouTube:
 * You must have at least one video, at least 30 seconds long

For all platforms:
 * Be consistent with brand identity; stick to the visual identity and brand messaging
 * Fill out the profile completely: Bio/description, profile/cover photo, website link etc.
 * Create relevant, quality content that conveys the brand's message.

No need to get followers or engagement; that generally takes a while and isn't required.

### Proposal
You will submit a short written proposal.

[USE THIS LINK to submit your Project 3 proposal](https://forms.gle/ybYmcqypzYDmneFf6)

## Progress Checks
You will have progress checks throughout the remainder of the semester.

Your preparedness and level of progress at each check will influence your `participation` score.

## Submission
You will submit a text response to Moodle that contains:
1. The `url` of your website.
2. The `url` of your social media profile.

Please test both of them to make sure they load properly before submitting.

### Grading
This is worth `22 pts.`

### Due Date
This assignment is due __Friday Dec 15th @ 11:59pm__

Because the registrar has a deadline for course grade submissions, __I cannot accept late submissions for this project.__