---
layout: default
title: Project One
footer: ''
highlight: 'assignments'
term: 'fa23'
course: 'ind'
---

# Project One --- <small>Re-Design</small>
## Description
In this Project, you will choose two poorly designed artifacts and propose re-designs for them.

You can use anything human-made including:
1. Charts/infographics
2. User interfaces--- websites, games, app etc.
3. Physical products
4. Locations/structures/physical space layouts
5. Graphic design--- e.g. poor color/font/choices
6. A customer experience, process or procedure (e.g. filling out a form or signing up for something)
7. Instructions with wording/language that is ambiguous or unclear.

I am flexible about what you select. Anything that causes confusion/frustration is an excellent candidate.

## Grading
This project is worth `10 points`. Each of your two selections is worth `5 pts.`

Considerations:

* Filename--- Please use this format: `p1-lastname-firstname.pdf`
* Selection--- Did you pick something frustrating/confusing?
* Issue description--- Did you clearly explain what the issue is with this artifact?
* Re-design--- Does your proposed solution solve the problem?
* Photo/document quality--- If you are using something hand-drawn, I should be able to clearly see/read your solution
* Presentation quality--- Did you present your solution

## Format
You will put this together in a slideshow (I recommend Google Drive) and submit a `pdf`.

__Hand-drawn solutions:__ You might choose to sketch out some concepts. This is totally fine.  
My only requirement is that your solution is clearly visible. I recommend using an app like [CamScanner](https://www.camscanner.com/) to pull your images.

You will share your findings in class in a short, informal presentation in the coming weeks.

## Submission
You will export your slideshow to a `pdf` document.

Please name it `p1-lastname-firstname.pdf`.

Submit your `pdf` to the Moodle assignment.

You will present this in class.

Due `Sunday September 24th @ 11:59pm`