---
layout: default
title: Project Two
footer: ''
highlight: 'assignments'
term: 'fa23'
course: 'ind'
---
# Project Two --- <small>Tableau Dashboard</small>
## Description
This assignment is similar to Homework Two with a few key differences:

1. Your project must be more robust - e.g. more dashboards/stories
2. Your data source cannot be the same as Homework Two.

## Process

### 1) Data Selection and Preparation
Consider your interests and research questions when making your selection.

Import the selected dataset into Tableau.

#### Datasets
The only requirement is that you cannot use the same data source as Homework Two.

Recommendations:
1. Option 1--- Use the Quality of Government data source:
 * First check out [Intro to QoG](https://www.gu.se/en/quality-government)
 * I recommend using the [QoG Basic dataset](https://www.gu.se/en/quality-government/qog-data/data-downloads/basic-dataset)
 * Remember there are both Cross-Section and Time Series datasets; please research this and choose the one that works for your purposes.
 * You will need to look through the `Codebook` (make sure it's the 'Basic' one)
 * Here's a quick example of what you can accomplish: Nic's [QoG Example Workbook](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-b2pk3ZjnJ9DEO2hA6OKx2cNXptbPIp7/view?usp=drive_link)
 * Some more ideas from the: [QoG Visualization Explorer](https://www.gu.se/en/quality-government/qog-data/visualization-tools)
2. Option 2--- Pick a dataset from the [Fun, Beginner-Friendly Kaggle Datasets](https://www.kaggle.com/code/rtatman/fun-beginner-friendly-datasets)
3. Option 3--- Use your own dataset. You might visit the [inspiration section](../inspiration.html) of the site and browse some of the datasets

### 2) Data Exploration and Visualization
First, explore the data in Google Sheets to get a feel for its shape, size, and variables.

Then, explore the data within Tableau to understand its structure, variables, and possible relationships.

Requirements:
1. Minimum three different types of data visualizations (e.g., bar charts, scatter plots, line charts). Each visualization should provide unique insights.
2. Minimum six total visualizations (you can repeat the kind e.g. you can have several bar charts).
3. Make sure your visualization is de-cluttered and 'cleaned up'. This means changing axis tick marks to be simpler, labeling interesting single data points, re-naming variables to something meaningful etc.

### 3) Interactivity and Filtering
Add interactivity to your visualizations.

Implement filters and actions to enable users to interact with the data.

This can be simple; don't overthink it.

### 4) Dashboard / Story Design
1. Combine your visualizations into a minimum of three Tableau dashboards.
2. Put all of those dashboards into one 'story' 
3. Consider the needs of your target audience (who's looking at the final product?).

### 5) Narrative and Interpretation
What story does the data tell?

Write a simple narrative that explains key findings and insights.

This you'll export as a `pdf` when you're done. Name it `p2-lastname-firstname.pdf`.

### 6) Presentation
You will do an informal presentation in class.

You don't need to prepare slides or anything; just walk us through your Tableau workbook and published Tableau story.

## Submission
You need to submit two things— your Tableau link and your written narrative.

1. In Tableau, do `Server > Tableau Public > Save to Tableau Public As` and publish it. Make sure it has your name clearly visible. PLEASE MAKE SURE THIS LINK IS ALSO IN YOUR PDF.
2. For your written narrative export a `pdf`. Name it `p2-lastname-firstname.pdf`.

## Grade
This is worth `16 pts.`

Considerations:
* `Data selection`: Pick a worthy subject of visualization.
* `Narrative` has interesting analysis/takeaways
* Narrative `Filename` should be correct. All lowercase. No spaces or underscores
* Chosen visualizations are `meaningful` (as opposed to arbitrary) and fit the data type
* Visualizations have `interactivity and filtering` - This can be simple; don't overthink it.
* Visualizations are `de-cluttered/cleaned up`
* At least three `dashboards`
* At least one `story`


#### Due Date
This is due `Monday Nov. 6th @ 11:59pm`. 